Zola footer pages (#1537)
matrix-org/matrix.org: content/legal/terms-and-conditions.md

+++
title = "Matrix.org Homeserver Terms and Conditions"
+++

Please read this document carefully before accessing or using this service!

# 1. Introduction

## 1.1 English, Not Legalese

Most Terms of Use and Privacy Policy documents are unreadable. They are written by lawyers and for lawyers, and in our opinion are not very effective.

> We decided to use plain English as much as possible, to make our terms as clear as possible. Some sections still have room for improvement - we plan to tackle these over time.

Reviewer: "as much as possible" doesn't seem to be a whole lot given the many "Note on Plain English" sections below. I'm wondering whether we should really have this paragraph – is sbd. actively working on making things easier to understand?

Author: This is legal team territory, I'd rather port it as is and fix it with them eventually :)

> When you read ‘the matrix.org homeserver’ or ‘the Service’ below, it refers to the services made available at **matrix.org** which store your account and personal conversation history, provide services such as bots and bridges, and communicate via the open Matrix decentralised communication protocol with the public Matrix Network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you read 'the matrix.org homeserver' or 'the Service' below, it refers to the services made available at **matrix.org** which store your account and personal conversation history, provide services such as bots and bridges, and communicate via the open Matrix decentralised communication protocol with the public Matrix Network.
```

Where you read *New Vector*, *New Vector Ltd.* or *we *or* us* below, it refers to the company we created in July 2017 to hire the Matrix core team and support Matrix’s development and so run the matrix.org homeserver: New Vector Ltd., and its French subsidiary: New Vector SARL and their agents. **This agreement does not apply to Matrix servers run by anyone else - Matrix is an open network like the Web and this agreement only applies to the server (matrix.org) provided by New Vector Ltd.**

If this agreement is not acceptable, please use a Matrix server provided by someone else!

Contact Information:

Email: [support@matrix.org](mailto:support@matrix.org)

Postal address:

10 Queen Street Place

London

United Kingdom

> EC4R 1AG

Reviewer: Yet another way to format a postal address 😄

Provided that you comply with the terms of this Agreement and our policies and procedures, you may use the Service to execute Applications owned by you. You are solely responsible for your Applications, including any data, text, images or content they contain.

# 6. Play Nice Clauses

*Note on Plain English: We know that the language in this section still reads like legalese - this will be improved in later revisions of this document.*

## 6.1 Use of The Service

You agree that you shall not:

* Use or attempt to gain unauthorised access to or use another’s account, password, data, or computer systems or networks connected to the matrix.org homeserver, whether through malicious attacks, password mining or any other means.

* Access or attempt to access any material that you are not authorized to access.

> * Submit or transmit any material that violates or infringes the rights of others including, without limitation, patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright, publicity, or other proprietary rights. Please see our [Copyright Policy](https://riot.im/copyright) for further details.

Reviewer: riot.im link.

Reviewer: Also this list has empty lines between items.

# 9. Links to Third Party Sites

The Service may include links that will take you to other sites outside of the the Service. The linked sites are provided as a convenience and the inclusion of the links do not imply any endorsement by us of any linked site. We have no control of the linked sites and you therefore acknowledge and agree that we are not responsible for the contents of any linked site, any link contained in a linked site or any changes or updates to a linked site. You further acknowledge and agree that we are not responsible for any form of transmission (e.g. webcasting) received from any linked site.

# 10. Warranties and Disclaimers

The matrix.org service is provided by New Vector under these terms of use "as is" without warranty of any kind, either express, implied, statutory or otherwise, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of title, non-infringement, merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. Without limiting the foregoing, New Vector makes no warranty that:

1. the Service will meet your requirements;

2. the Service will be uninterrupted, timely, secure, or error-free;

3. the quality of the Service will meet your expectations; and

> 4. any errors or defects in the Service will be corrected.

Reviewer: Empty lines.

You acknowledge and agree that:

1. New Vector does not control, endorse, or accept responsibility for any materials or services offered by third parties (except where stated otherwise), including third-party vendors and third parties accessible through linked sites;

2. New Vector makes no representations or warranties whatsoever about any such third parties, their materials or services;

3. any dealings you may have with such third parties are at your own risk; and

> 4. New Vector shall not be liable or responsible for any materials or services offered by third parties.

Reviewer: Same here.

Some states or jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion of implied warranties or limitations on how long an implied warranty may last, so the above limitations may not apply to you. To the extent permissible, any implied warranties are limited to ninety days.

# 11. Indemnity and Liability

*Note on Plain English: We know that the language in this section still reads like legalese - this will be improved in later revisions of this document.*

You agree to indemnify and hold New Vector and its officers, co-branders, other partners and employees harmless from any claim or demand, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, made by any third party due to or arising out of:

> 1. your user materials and any other content (e.g. computer viruses) that you may submit, post to or transmit through the Service, including a third party’s use of such user materials or content (e.g. reliance on the accuracy, completeness or usefulness of your user materials);

Reviewer: And here.

7. your access to or use of linked sites and your connections thereto; or

8. any dealings between you and any third parties advertising or promoting via the Service.

# 12. Emergency Service Calls

The Service does not and is not intended to support or carry emergency calls to any emergency services (e.g. E911 or 112 numbers). We are not liable for any claims, damages or loss which arise from this limitation.

# 13. Limitation of Liability

*Note on Plain English: We know that the language in this section still reads like legalese - this will be improved in later revisions of this document.*

In no event shall New Vector, its officers, directors, employees, partners or suppliers be liable to you or any third party for any special, punitive, incidental, indirect or consequential damages or losses of any kind, or any damages or losses whatsoever, including those resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether or not foreseeable or if New Vector has been advised of the possibility of such damages or losses, and on any theory of liability, including breach of contract or warranty, negligence or other tortious action, or any other claim arising out of or in connection with:

> 1. the access or use of or the inability to access or use the Service;

Reviewer: Also here.

will always try to inform you of any changes with reasonable notice so you can
adjust your Application, but we are under no obligation to do so.

Provided that you comply with the terms of this Agreement and our policies and
procedures, you may use the Service to execute Applications owned by you. You
are solely responsible for your Applications, including any data, text, images
or content they contain.

# 6. Play Nice Clauses

*Note on Plain English: We know that the language in this section still reads
like legalese - this will be improved in later revisions of this document.*

## 6.1 Use of The Service

You agree that you shall not:

- Use or attempt to gain unauthorised access to or use another’s account,
  password, data, or computer systems or networks connected to the matrix.org
  homeserver, whether through malicious attacks, password mining or any other
  means.
- Access or attempt to access any material that you are not authorized to
  access.
- Submit or transmit any material that violates or infringes the rights of
  others including, without limitation, patent, trademark, trade secret,
  copyright, publicity, or other proprietary rights. Please see our

>   [Copyright Policy](https://riot.im/copyright) for further details.

Reviewer: Riot link
